>>> ON THIS EDITION FOR SUNDAY
MAY 18, SWISS VOTERS REJECT
PLAN TO CREATE THE WORLD'S
HIGHEST MINIMUM WAGE
IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT, SOUT
AFRICA WAGES WAR ON POACHERS
TARGETING THE WORLD'S LARGES
POPULATION OF RHINOS
>> THIEVES ENTERING YOUR COUNTRY
POACHERS, ILLEGALLY.
THEY PLUNDER YOUR RESOURCES.
>>> AND HOW COVERAGE OF WOMEN ON
WIKIPEDIA MAY BE LACKING BECAUSE
OF THE PEOPLE WHO EDIT THE
CONTENT, NEXT ON PBS NEWSHOU
WEEKEND.
FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS AT
LINCOLN.
>>> AUTHORITIES IN TURKEY TODA
DETAINED 25 PEOPLE INCLUDING A
NUMBER OF MINING COMPANY
EXECUTIVES IN CONNECTION WIT
THE FINE FIRE THAT KILLED 30
PEOPLE
THREE OF THOSE TAKEN INT
CUSTODY WERE LATER ARRESTED.
MOST OF THOSE DIED BY CARBON
MONOXIDE POISONING
SUPPORT BEAMS WERE MADE OF WOOD,
NOT METAL.
AND THE MINE HAD TOO FEW CARBO
MONOXIDE SENSORS
THE LAST OF THE VICTIMS WA
PULLED FROM THE ACCIDENT TODAY
>>> IN LIBYA'S CAPITAL CITY,
ARMED GUNMEN STORMED THE
PARLIAMENT BUILDING TODAY.
SMOKE BILLOWED OVER THE CAPITA
AFTER FIGHT OTHERS ATTACKED TH
BUILDING WITH ANTI-AIRCRAF
WEAPONS AND GRENADES
THERE WERE NO REPORTED C
CASUALTIES, BUT A NUMBER ARE
BEING HELD
THE TROOPS ARE LED TO A LIBYAN
GENERAL.
HE HAS ACCUSED ISLAMIS
LAWMAKERS OF SUPPORTIN
EXTREMISTS
>>> IN BOSNIA, AT LEAST 30
PEOPLE HAVE DIED AND TENS OF
THOUSANDS OF OTHERS HAVE BEE
EVACUATED AFTER THE REGION'S
WORST FLOODING IN MORE THAN 10
YEARS.
ONE OFFICIAL SKRIEFED TH
SITUATION AS CATASTROPHIC.
RUSSIAN CARGO PLANES HAV
DELIVERED FOOD AND GENERATORS.
THEY ARE WORRIED THAT IT COULD
UNEARTH LAND MINES FROM TH
BOSNIAN WAR.
>>> A PLAN WOULD REDUCE INCOME
INEQUALITY, BUSINESS LEADERS
HAVE THE ARGUED AGAINST IT
SAYING SWITZERLAND WOULD HAV
MORE UNEMPLOYMENT.
WE HAVE THE CHIEF TH
CORRESPONDENT FOR THE ASSOCIATED
PRESS IN THAT COUNTRY.
THEY CALCULATED THAT THE MINIMUM
WAGE VOTED DOWN IN SWITZER LAR
WOULD HAVE BEEN ABOUT TWICE AS
HIGH AS THE AMERICAN MINIMUM
WAGE
TELL US ABOUT THE DEBATE THA
LED UP TO TODAY'S VOTE
>> WELL, FIRST OF ALL, THIS WA
ONE OF FOUR REFERENDUMS THAT
VOTERS DECIDED ON SUNDAY
THE SWISS TRADE UNION FEDERATION
GATHERED ENOUGH SIGNATURES T
PUT IT ON THE BALLOT
THEY WERE ARGUING THAT A
NATIONWIDE FLOOR OF 22 SWISS
FAUNGS AN HOUR
BUT THIS IS A COUNTRY THAT HAS
PRETTY MUCH THE HIGHEST PRICES
AND CITIES IN THE WORLD.
YOU CAN SPEND $7 FOR STARBUCKS
LATTE.
AND IT'S ALSO A COUNTRY THAT HAS
A MEDIAN PAY OF 37 FRANCS AN
HOUR
>> IF YOU'RE EARNING $37 A
HOUR, DOES THAT MAKE YOU FEE
POOR
>> SURPRISINGLY, YOU DO.
I'VE BEEN LIVING IN SWITZERLAN
FOR THREE YEARS NOW, AND I
FEELS LIKE THINGS COST GENERALLY
TWO TO THREE TIMES AS MUCH A
THEY DO IN THE STATES.
I'VE SEEN A PAIR OF JEANS THAT
SELL FOR $50 IN THE STATES G
FOR ABOUT THREE TIMES THAT MUC
IN SWITZERLAND
>> THIS IS A PATTERN WE'VE SEE
OVER THE PAST YEAR OR SO
THIS IS THE THIRD VOTE ON INCOME
EQUALITY
THEY TRIED TO PASS ONE THA
REDUCED THE INCOME DISPARITY
BETWEEN THE PEOPLE WHO RUN
COMPANIES AND THE PEOPLE WHO
WORK AT THEM
HOW DO THEY HAVE THESE SO OFTEN?
>> THIS IS A COUNTRY THAT'S
DIRECT DEMOCRACY
THEY'RE A LITTLE BIT CRAZY ABOUT
THEIR REFERENDUMS.
IT'S SWITZERLAND'S UNIQUE POLICY
OF POPULAR RULE.
100,000 SIGNATURES TO GET IT O
THE BALLOT
AND THEN IT TAKES A LITTLE TIM
TO GET IT TO A VOTE.
BUT THE TRADE UNION GOT THIS
APPROVED
THEY GOT ENOUGH BALLOT
SIGNATURES IN 2012
AND HERE WE ARE TODAY.
>> AND FINALLY, HOW DOES THE
MINIMUM WAGE KIND OF IN TH
NEIGHBORHOOD AFFECT THE SWIS
DEBATE
>> SWITZERLAND HAS NO MINIMU
WAGE
BUT WHAT'S IMPORTANT TO BEAR I
MIND IS THAT THE OECD WHIC
ADJUSTS FIGURES FOR SPENDING
POWER LISTS THE HIGHEST MINIMU
WAGE AT LUX UMBURG'S AT $10.66
PER HOUR
NEXT IS BELGIUM, THE
NETHERLANDS.
THE U.S. COMES IN TENTH ON THE
LIST
IT'S LISTED AT $7.11 AT TH
ADJUSTED RATE.
AND OF COURSE IN REALITY, IT'S
$7.25.
MY UNDERSTANDING IS THAT THE
SWISS MINIMUM WAGE WOULD HAV
WORKED OUT TO ABOUT $14 IN
SPENDING POWER WHICH PUTS TH
HIGH COSTS IN PERSPECTIVE.
>> THANK YOU FOR JOINING US FROM
GENEVA SWITZERLAND
>>> BACK IN THE U.S.
AN EVACUATION ORDER WAS LIFTED
AND THOUSANDS OF CALIFORNIAN
HAVE RETURNED HOME AFTER FIRES
RAVAGED PARTS OF CALIFORNIA.
FIREFIGHTERS PUT OUT THE
REMAINING BLAZES THIS WEEKEND.
AT LEAST TEN FIRES HAD RAGED
EARLIER THIS WEEK DESTROYING
MORE THAN 120 HOMES AND TW
BUSINESSES
>>> THE STATE HAS BEEN SUFFERING
THROUGH A RECORD DROUGHT
IT'S BEEN A VIOLENT WEEKEND IN
CHICAGO.
AUTHORITIES SAY AT LEAST TWO
PEOPLE WERE KILLED AND 19 MORE
WOUNDED IN A SERIES OF UNRELATED
SHOOTINGS SINCE FRIDAY NIGHT
AUTHORITIES ARE INVESTIGATIN
BUT THUS FAR NO ONE HAS BEEN
TAKEN INTO CUSTODY IN CONNECTION
WITH ANY OF THE INCIDENTS.
THE NUMBER OF SHOOTINGS AN
MURDERS IN CHICAGO THIS YEAR I
VIRTUALLY THE SAME AS IT WAS A
YEAR AGO
MANY OF THEM ARE GANG-RELATED.
♪ ♪
>>> AND NOW TO OUR SIGNATURE
SEGMENT.
THE WORLD'S RHINO POPULATION I
UNDER SERIOUS THREAT
THERE ARE ONLY 29,000 RHINOS
LEFT IN THE WILD
A DRAMATIC DROOP DURING THE PAST
SEVERAL DECADES.
NEARLY THREE QUARTERS OF THE
SURVIVING RHINOS ARE IN SOUT
AFRICA, MOST IN THAT COUNTRY'S
NATIONAL PARK.
AND MOST REMAIN UNDER THREAT
FROM POACHERS COMING ACROSS TH
BORDER FROM MOZAMBIQUE
HERE'S OUR SPECIAL
CORRESPONDENT, A WARNING
OUR REPORT INCLUDES SOME
DISTURBING IMAGES.
>> Reporter: THE KRUEGER
NATIONAL PARK IS ENORMOUS, A
BIG AS THE STATE OF NEW JERSEY
HOME TO THE LARGEST POPULATION
OF RHINOS ON THE PLANET.
AND THEY ARE BEING POACHED HER
AT AN ALARMING RATE.
FOR THEIR HORNS.
RHINO HORN IS COMPOSED OF TH
SAME MATERIAL AS A FINGERNAIL,
BUT IT IS PRIZED IN ASIA
ESPECIALLY VIETNAM
SOME BELIEVE IT CAN CURE CANCE
AND BOOST VIR ILLITY
SO IT IS MORE VALUABLE THA
GOLD
IT SELLS FOR ABOUT $50,000
A TYPICAL HORN CAN WEIGH BETWEEN
2 POUNDS AND 6 POUNDS.
IN KRUGER PARK LAST YEAR 606
RHINO WERE KILLED.
SO FAR IN 2014, THE FIGURE
STANDS AT 245.
>> YOU'RE DEALING WITH ARMED
INCURSION.
YOU'RE A SOVEREIGN COUNTRY
YOU HAVE ARMED THIEVES ENTERIN
YOUR COUNTRY, ARMED POACHERS
ILLEGALLY.
THEY PLUNDER YOUR RESOURCES AND,
ITS ILLEGALLY AGAIN.
>> Reporter: THE RHINOS AR
DEFENSELESS.
THEY'RE SHOT, THEIR HORNS HACKED
OFF WHETHER THEY ARE DEAD OR
ALIVE.
A TOURIST CAPTURED THESE
SHOCKING IMAGES OF ONE RHINO
SUFFERING.
>> I THINK THE WORST IS WHEN YOU
COME ACROSS AN ANIMAL THAT'S
ALIVE, THAT HASN'T BEEN KILLED
HUMANELY AND IS ACTUALLY
BLEEDING OUT AND IS ON ITS
HINDQUARTERS AND TRYING TO WAL
AWAY AND IT CAN'T.
AND ITS WHOLE NASAL CAVITY AND
HORNS ARE REMOVED.
I HAD SEEN A RHINO CALF THAT HAD
BEEN SHOT AND KILLED B
POACHERS, AND YOU ASK YOURSELF
WHY?
WHY KILL THE CALF?
IT DOESN'T MAKE SENSE.
>> Reporter: IT IS A SYMPTOM O
THE LEVEL OF GREED
A CALF HORN IS TINY BUT TILL
WORTH SOMETHING TO POACHERS.
AND THEY WON'T HESITATE TO SHOOT
AT RANGERS
THIS MAN HAS BEEN A RANGER FOR
27 YEARS
>> THEY CAN BE VERY, VER
DANGEROUS.
THEY'VE TAKEN TO BRINGING MORE
FIREARMS THAN YOU'D EXPECT FRO
A HUNTING GROUP.
THEY WOULD NORMALLY BRING THEI
HUNTING RIFLE AND PROTECTION
ARM, AN AUTOMATIC WEAPON LIKE
AK-47.
ONE HAD A GRENADE.
>> LAST YEAR WE HAD 60
FIREFIGHTS, SIX-ZERO
KILLING DOESN'T COME EASY FO
ANY CIVILIZED PERSON
>> WE HAVE 22 SECTIONS IN TH
KRUEGER NATIONAL PARK.
>> Reporter: IT IS A SMALL WAR
AND RUN FROM A TINY OPERATIO
CENTER IN THE PARK
RANGERS ARE DEPLOYED A
STRATEGIC LOCATIONS ACROSS
KRUEGER.
AT ANY GIVEN TIME THERE AR
BETWEEN 5 AND 15 GROUPS OF
POACHERS
RANGERS PATROL DAY AND NIGHT
TRYING TO TRACK THEM DOWN.
IT IS DANGEROUS AND DIFFICULT.
>> IF WE CAN FIND THE TRACK LIKE
THIS
AND THEN THAT IS WHERE WE GE
OUR INFORMATION THAT THEIR
MOVEMENT OF THE POACHERS, HO
ARE THEY WALKING HERE, LOOKING
FOR THE RHINOS
AND THEN FROM THIS INFORMATION
IS WHERE WE CAN START WORKING ON
THE HOW ARE WE GOING TO GE
THEM
>> Reporter: NOT EASY FOR A FE
REASONS.
>> FIRST OF ALL, THEY MUST GET
TO ENTER THE PARK.
THEY'RE NOT SCARED OF WILD
ANIMALS.
THEY'RE NOT SCARED OF THE DARK
OR THE NIGHT
AND THEY HAVE NO RULES
ABSOLUTELY NO RULES.
>> Reporter: 90% OF THE POACHERS
CROSS INTO THE PARK ALONG SOUT
AFRICA'S POOREST BORDER WITH
MOZAMBIQUE
IT'S THEIR ESCAPE ROUTE TOO.
THIS MAN FLIES SUPPORT FRO
ABOVE, BUT HE SAYS THEY CANNOT
FOLLOW THE POACHERS INTO
MOZAMBIQUE
IS IT FRUSTRATING FOR YOU WHEN
YOU HAVE TO LEAVE THEM
>> I THINK SO.
I THINK SO
IT'S SUCH A COMPLETE AREA THAT
THE POACHERS KNOW THAT
THEY JUST HAVE TO GET OUT.
AND WE CANNOT GO INTO THEI
COUNTRY.
SO IT'S A REAL BARRIER FOR US.
>> Reporter: WITH PO PO NATIONAL
PARK, THERE ARE FEW ANIMALS HERE
AND NO RHINOS, BECAUSE POACHIN
WAS NEVER ILLEGAL IN MOZAMBIQUE.
THAT WILL CHANGE THIS YEAR
AL FON SEW IS A DIRECTOR AT TH
DEPARTMENT OF TOURISM.
HE SAYS THE LAWS ARE ABOUT T
GET A LOT TOUGHE
>> THEY ARE ESSENTIALLY FREE
THEY ARE CONVINCED THAT NO ONE
CAN DO ANYTHING AT ALL TO ARREST
THEM OR MAKE THEIR LIF
COMPLICATED.
FROM NOW, I'M CONVINCED THAT I
WILL BE COMPLETELY DIFFERENT
>> Reporter: AT THE MOMENT
THOUGH, THE POACHERS REMAIN AL
POWERFUL, AND THEY PREY ON
PEOPLE STILL LIVING INSIDE
MOZAMBIQUE'S PO PO PARK.
IT IS ONLY 20 MILES FROM THE
KRUGER PARK BORDER
THERE ARE SEVERAL COMMUNITIE
LIKE THIS SCATTERED THROUGHOUT
THE PARK
SUBSISTENCE FARMERS, AND THAT IS
AN IMPORTANT PART OF THE
EQUATION
THEY DON'T HAVE MUCH MONEY, AN
THE POACHERS DO.
THEY'LL PAY UP TO $30,000 FOR
PAIR OF RHINO HORNS.
HUGE MONEY FOR PEOPLE LIVING O
ABOUT $6 A DAY
>> IF YOU LOOK AT THE POACHER,
THE POACHER IS TYPICALLY 18, 2
YEARS OLD.
YOUNG.
NOT MANY JOB PROSPECTS
BUT THE MONEY IS SPENT AT BEST
ON A HOUSE, BUT GENERALLY ON
ALCOHOL, VEHICLES, PARTIES
SO THE GREED IS A HUGE FACTOR.
>> Reporter: WE WERE TOLD BY A
PARK OFFICIAL THAT THESE YOUNG
MEN WERE INVOLVED IN POACHING.
THEY WARNED US NOT TO APPROACH
THEM
THE OLDER GENERATION SPOKE TO US
THAT THEY WERE NERVOUS
IF THEY KNEW THERE WERE POACHERS
IN THE VILLAGE, THEY DIDN'T SAY.
AMELIA HAS LIVED HERE MOST O
HER LIFE
>> Translator: I WOULD NOT SHO
PEOPLE THE WAY OR HELP THEM, SHE
SAYS
IF THEY CAME, I WOULD NOT TAKE
THEIR MONEY.
>> Reporter: THOMAS, ONE OF TH
PARK OFFICIALS SAYS HE KNOWS
THERE ARE PEOPLE HERE WHO DO
BECAUSE HE SAYS, HE SAYS, THER
ARE MANY NEW HOUSES.
>> IT IS ABOUT THE POACHING, YOU
KNOW
>> Reporter: YEAH.
SO SOME OF THESE HOUSES IN THE
VILLAGE WERE BUILT WITH MONE
FROM POACHING?
>> I DON'T KNOW ACTUALLY WHO I
POACHING OR NOT, BUT I FIGUR
OUT IN A FEW MOMENT I SEE TH
HOUSES, YOU KNOW
>> Reporter: MOZAMBIQUEN PAR
RANGERS HAVE THE WEAPONS T
PROVE IT
THESE ARE FROM RECENTLY ARRESTED
POACHERS
SO THEY USE THE AK-47 TO SHOOT
AGAINST THE RANGERS, AND THE
USE THIS WEAPON HERE
>> FOR RHINOS.
>> Reporter: FOR THE RHINOS.
ON THE SOUTH AFRICAN SIDE, THE
KRUEGER RANGERS ARE TRAINING T
FIGHT BACK
IN THIS SIMULATION, POACHERS ARE
TRACKED.
THE ENSING STAGED FIREFIGH
INVOLVES LIVE AMMUNITION, AND IT
ALL ENDS WITH A CAPTURE.
SOUTH AFRICA AND MOZAMBIQUE HAVE
JUST SIGNED AN AGREEMENT O
COOPERATION.
SOON, RANGERS FROM BOT
COUNTRIES WILL BE FREE T
CONDUCT JOINT OPERATIONS AND
SOUTH AFRICAN RANGERS WILL B
ABLE TO CHASE POACHERS INT
MOZAMBIQUE
>> IT HAS THE POTENTIAL TO
CHANGE IT OVER THE NEXT YEAR
MOST DEFINITELY.
ONE WILL BE ABLE TO PURSUE WIT
A JOINT OPERATION ACROSS THE
BORDER
>> Reporter: MOZAMBIQUE PARK
RANGER SAYS HE IS LOOKIN
FORWARD TO WORKING WITH TH
SOUTH AFRICANS
>> SOUTH AFRICAN CANNOT FIGH
AGAINST THE POACHER ALONE.
AND THE MOZAMBIQUE, TOO, CANNO
FIGHT AGAINST POACHER ALONE.
WE ARE FIGHTING AGAINST THE SAME
ENEMY, AND THEREFORE, WE HAVE TO
BE UNITED.
>> Reporter: IT IS A SIGNIFICANT
DEVELOPMENT, PERHAPS A TURNING
POINT IN THIS WAR, BECAUSE I
THE LAST SIX YEARS, 1500 RHINO
HAVE BEEN SLAUGHTERED IN KRUGE
PARK ALONE
THE BLACK RHINO IS NOW
CLASSIFIED AS CRITICALLY
ENDANGERED
THE WHITE RHINO NEAR THREATENED.
THE FRONT LINE RANGERS I
MOZAMBIQUE AND SOUTH AFRIC
OFFER THE BEST HOPE IN THI
DETERMINED EFFORT TO SAVE TH
RHINO.
>> WE ARE NOT GOING TO GO AWAY
THEY NEED TO STOP AND TURN
AROUND AND WALK AWAY, BECAUSE WE
ARE NOT GOING AWAY
WE ARE HERE FOREVER.
AND WE ARE GOING TO ENSURE THA
THE RHINO ARE HERE FOREVER
♪ ♪
>>> FIND OUT HOW COUNTRIES
AROUND THE WORLD ARE TRYING TO
RAISE AWARENESS ABOUT RHIN
POACHING
VISIT NEWSHOUR.PBS.ORG
>>> SINCE ITS LAUNCH, WIKIPEDI
HAS GROWN DRAMATICALLY
IT'S NOW HAS
ENTRIES.
MOST OF THE EDITORS ARE MEN.
AND THE SITE IS FACING CRITICISM
THAT WOMEN'S STORIES ARE NOT
BEING ADEQUATELY TOLD.
TRACY WOLF REPORTS
>> Reporter: REBECCA MORRIS IS A
PROMINENT, CONTEMPORARY ARTIST
WITH A CAREER SPANNING THE LAS
20 YEARS
HER PAINTINGS CAN BE VIEWED IN
GALLERIES AND MUSEUMS AROUND THE
GLOBE, INCLUDING IN LOS ANGELE
AND IN MUNICH, GERMANY
AND IF YOU GOOGLE HER,
IMMEDIATELY IMAGES OF HER WORK
AND LINKS TO INTERVIEWS APPEAR
BUT PRIOR TO MARCH OF THIS YEA
SHE DIDN'T HAVE A WIKIPEDI
PAGE
SOME SAY THIS IS A SMALL EXAMPLE
OF A VERY LARGE PROBLEM.
THE LACK OF FMAL
REPRESENTATION AND PARTICIPATION
ON WIKIPEDIA
>> WE WANT TO INCREASE THE
NUMBER OF WIN.
BUT JUST INCREASING THE NUMBER
OF WOMEN ISN'T NECESSARILY GOING
TO IMPROVE THE FACT THAT CONTENT
IS SKEWED.
>> Reporter: ADRIAN WAS
DEDICATED WIKIPEDIAEN AS A
VOLUNTEER EDITOR
>> I AM ONE OF THE CONTRIBUTORS.
>> Reporter: AND BEING A FEMAL
EDITOR PUT HER ON A VERY SHORT
LIST
A STUDY PUBLISHED BY THE
ORGANIZATION THAT RUNS WIKIPEDIA
DISCOVERED THAT LESS THAN 13% OF
CONTRIBUTORS ARE WOMEN
THE SAME STUDY FOUND THAT TH
AVERAGE CONTRIBUTOR IS MALE AN
IN HIS MID-20s
>> VOICES AND PERSPECTIVES ARE
BEING LEFT OUT
>> Reporter: SHE FIRST STARTED
EDITING WIKIPEDIA TEN YEARS AG
WHILE WORKING TOWARD A Ph.D.
THIS LED HER TO WRITING ENTRIE
LIKE JANE AUSTEN AND
SHAKESPEARE.
>> I AND ONE OTHER PERSON WORKED
ON THE JANE AUSTEN ARTICLE
IT'S A PRETTY INTERESTIN
DICHOTOMY TO ME.
THEY READ AUSTEN ALL THE TIM
BUT THEY DON'T GO TO WIKIPEDIA
TO EDIT IT
>> Reporter: ONE EXAMPLE NOTED
BY A MEDIA COLUMNIST IN 2011 I
THE-THINK DESCRIPTIONS I
WIKIPEDIA ABOUT THE SOPRANOS
COMPARED TO THE MUCH SHORTER
ENTRY FOR THE FEMALE "SEX IN THE
CITY."
IT BECAME CLEAR WHEN SHE
REVEALED HER GENDER AFTE
WRITING ANONYMOUSLY FOR SEVE
YEARS.
WHAT HAPPENED WHEN YOU
IDENTIFIED YOURSELF AS A WOMAN
EDITOR
>> THERE WAS A BIG CHANGE IN HOW
PEOPLE TREATED ME AND HOW THEY
VIEWED THE INFORMATION I PUT O
WIKIPEDIA.
THERE WERE A LOT MORE QUESTION
ABOUT WHAT I WAS ADDING, A LOT
MORE SKEPTICISM.
AND A LOT OF TIMES WHEN I MADE
ARGUMENTS ABOUT INCLUDING
SPECIFIC PIECE OF CONTENT OR
EXCLUDEING A SPECIFIC PIECE OF
CONTENT I WAS ACCUSED OF BEING
HYSTERICAL OR EMOTIONAL, THING
THAT HAD NEVER HAPPENED BEFORE
>> Reporter: AFTER THE STUDY
CAME OUT, DETAILING HOW FEWE
WOMEN WERE EDITING, THEY SET A
GOAL TO INCREASING WOMEN EDITORS
TO 25% BY 2017
>> ARE WE WILLING TO BE THIS
SELF-SELECTING
AND BE THIS SMALL?
WE CAN HAVE MANY MORE PEOPLE I
WE'RE WILLING TO BE A MORE
WELCOMING COMMUNITY.
>> Reporter: TO HELP ACHIEVE
THIS, MANY GROUPS HAVE ORGANIZED
EDIT-A-THONS
THEY ARE NOT GENDER EXCLUSIVE,
BUT INCREASINGLY WOMEN ARE
RECRUITING OTHER WOMEN T
PARTICIPATE.
>> DO YOU THINK THAT MORE SHOULD
BE HAPPENING IN ORDER TO TRY T
INCREASE THE PARTICIPATION O
WOMEN AS EDITORS AND CONTENT O
WIKIPEDIA?
>> IN ONE SENSE I WOULD SAY WE
NEED TO ADD THE VOICE OF
FEMINISTS.
>> Reporter: THIS EDIT-A-THO
HELD IN LOS ANGELES IN MARCH
FOCUSED ON CREATING ENTRIES FO
L.A. ARTISTS, MANY OF THEM
WOMEN, AND THAT'S HOW REBECC
MORRIS FINALLY GOT HER PAGE IN
THE WORLD'S LARGES
ENCYCLOPEDIA
>> THE FORMER ENCYCLOPEDIA
EXCLUDED THE HISTORY O
EQUIPMENT.
IT'S ONE THING WE SEE ALL TH
TIME
WE SAY IF WE WANT TO INCLUDE ALL
OF THESE OTHER NARRATIVE
BESIDES THE SIP CAL NARRATIV
THAT WE USUALLY TELL OF DEAD
WHITE MEN, WE'VE GOT TO GET IT
IN THERE NOW
>> IF YOU WANT TO WEIGH IN ABOUT
THIS CONTROVERSY, GO ONLINE TO
NEWSHOUR.PBS.ORG
>>> THIS IS PBS NEWSHOUR SUNDAY.
>>> THERE'S SOME NEW DATA OUT ON
HOW WE GET TO WORK AND WHAT THAT
MAY SAY ABOUT US
THIS PAST FRIDAY WAS BIKE TO
WORKDAY.
BUT CHANCES ARE YOU DID NO
PARTICIPATE, ONLY .6% OF
AMERICANS COMMUTE TO WORK BY
BIKE
I AM OCCASIONALLY ONE OF THEM.
ON SOME DAYS I RIDE TO WORK OVER
THE 59th STREET BRIDGE
THE NUMBER OF US WHO PEDAL T
WORK IS UP 60% OVER THE LAST
DECADE
BUT IT ALSO FINDS SOMETHING ELSE
INTERESTING ABOUT THOSE WHO HAVE
TO RIDE TO WORK VERSUS THOSE O
US WHO CAN CHOOSE TO
THE POOREST, AND RICHEST, MOST
EDUCATED AND LEAST EDUCATED AR
THE MOST LIKELY TO RIDE TO WORK.
HERE IN NEW YORK WHERE
DRAMATICALLY FEWER PEOPLE DRIV
TO WORK THAN IN THE REST OF TH
COUNTRY, I RIDE MY BIKE AS A
ALTERNATIVE TO THE SUBWAY.
THEY HAVE INSTALLED HUNDREDS O
MILES OF BIKE LANES AND LAUNCHED
A BIKE SHARE PROGRAM
WE'VE SEEN DOUBLE DIGIT GROWTH
THIS IS THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
FOR TRANSPORTATION ALTERNATIVE
THEY HAND OUT THE SNACKS
>> THE CENSUS ONLY CAPTURES WORK
TRIPS.
SO IT'S NOT COUNTING ERRANDS O
RECREATION OR OTHER TYPES OF
BIKE TRIPS
AND IT DOESN'T COUNT TRIPS THA
PEOPLE TAKE TO THE TRAIN OR TO
THE BUS.
>> EVERY KIND OF PERSON ON EVERY
KIND OF BIKE DOING EVERY SORT OF
THING.
EVEN A QUICK PROMO FOR THE
NEWSHOUR
ONE PROMISE, I WON'T BE DOIN
THE SHOW ANY TIME SOON IN MY
BIKE CLOTHES
♪ ♪
>>> BEFORE WE LEAVE YOU, A QUICK
RECAP OF TODAY'S NEWS.
AT&T ANNOUNCED THAT IT I
ACQUIRING DIRECT TV.
THE DEAL GIVES AT&T ALMOST 2
MILLION PAID TV SUBSCRIBERS.
>>> THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE IN
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA RETURNED
HOME AFTER WILDFIRES WER
EXTINGUISHED
>>> GUNMEN STORMED A PARLIAMEN
BUILDING IN LIBYA.
>>> AND SWISS VOTERS REJECT
PLAN TO SET THE MINIMUM WAGE A
$25 AN HOUR.
JOIN US ON AIR AND ON LINE O
THE NEWSHOUR
MARGARET WARNER REPORTS FROM
UKRAINE.
AND WE'LL BRING YOU A PREVIEW OF
VOTING HERE AT HOME BEFORE
TUESDAY'S CRITICAL PRIMARIES
THAT'S IT FOR THIS EDITION O
THE NEWSHOUR
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN
THANKS FOR WATCHING.